seabirds like these gulls loons and
Guillemots are all here to take
advantage of the schools of young
herring living in these inland waters
the Gila mots are expert underwater
hunters and can easily dive up to a
hundred meters herring will avoid
swimming through bubbles the Gila mots
take advantage of this to corral the
herring and drive them up to the water
surface
the trails of bubbles are air trapped in
the gila monsters and squeezed out by
the water pressure as they dive
the Gila mots remained underwater for
several minutes as they heard the
frenzied herring into bigger and bigger
bait balls
[Music]
forming a bait ball is a herrings
last-ditch defense with the gilliam
watts pushing them up from below the
herring are driven to the surface where
the gulls have been waiting to attack
[Music]
many dive into the bait ball to try and
make a catch
[Music]
but some try a different technique
piracy
[Music]
these feeding frenzies don't last long
though the herring eventually escape
diving deep out of reach of these
surface predators
you